New documentation page for application shell connectors (#2557)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-shell-connectors.mdx

---
title: "@/application-shell-connectors"
---

<Subtitle>

Complementary tools for the [`@commercetools-frontend/application-shell`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-shell).

</Subtitle>

# Installation

```
yarn add @commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors

# or

npm --save install @commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors
```

Additionally install the peer dependencies (if not present)

```
yarn add react @apollo/client

# or

npm --save install react @apollo/client
```

# Application context

This section describes different parts of information provided through the application context and how it can be accessed.

## Application properties

This is the list of the main properties you can access in the application context.

### `environment`

> An object containing information about the environment of the Custom Application such as the [ID](/api-reference/application-config#envproductionapplicationid))] of the Custom Application or its [entry point](/api-reference/application-config#entrypointuripath).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information about the runtime application environment such as the [application ID](/api-reference/application-config#envproductionapplicationid) or the [application entry point](/api-reference/application-config#entrypointuripath).
```

```json
{
  "environment": {
    "applicationId": "ckw3vt1hv034901uzio4bkzc3:my-custom-application",
    "applicationName": "My Custom Application",
    "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application"
  }
}
```

### `user`

> Logged in user information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information about the logged in user.
```

```json
{
  "user": {
    "id": "3mj76c04-f910-4223-84e1-f97b0fe291c2",
    "email": "john.doe@domain.com",
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Doe",
    "businessRole": "Consultant",
    "locale": "en-GB",
    "timeZone": "Europe/Berlin",
    "projects": [
      { "key": "my-project-A", "name": "My Project A" },
      { "key": "my-project-B", "name": "My Project B" }
    ]
  }
}
```

### `project`

> Current selected project information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information about the currently selected project.
```

```json
{
  "project": {
    "countries": ["DE", "US"],
    "currencies": ["EUR", "USD"],
    "key": "project-a",
    "languages": ["de-DE", "en-US"],
    "name": "Project A",
    "ownerId": "3mj76c04-f910-4223-84e1-f97b0fe291c2",
    "ownerName": "My Organization"
  }
}
```

### `dataLocale`

> This property contains the information about the selected locale that is used to render localized data in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected data locale that is used to render localized data in your application.
```

You should use it as the selected language in components such as [LocalizedTextField](https://uikit.commercetools.com/?path=/story/components-fields--localizedtextfield).

```json
{
  "dataLocale": "de"
}

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

<Info>

This is not the value used for the Merchant Center language, which is based on the `user.locale`.

</Info>
````

## Custom user properties

> It is important to note that your Custom Application configuration properties are also exposed within the `context.environment` property.<br/>
> Any property you add to your application configuration file under the prop [`additionalEnv`](/api-reference/application-config#additionalenv) will also be available in the `context.environment` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top of the default properties in the `context.environment` object, any property defined in the [`additionalEnv`](/api-reference/application-config#additionalenv) object will be available in the `context.environment` object as well.
```

> Let's say you have something like this `custom-application-config.mjs` file in your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful to inject values specific to your application. For example:
```

> ```json
> {
>   "name": "My Custom Application",
>   "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application",
>   "cloudIdentifier": "gcp-eu",
>   "additionalEnv": {
>     "trackingSentry": "https://000@sentry.io/000",
>   },
>   ... // rest of your configuration
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json title="custom-application-config.json" highlightLines="5-7"
{
  "name": "My Custom Application",
  "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application",
  "cloudIdentifier": "gcp-eu",
  "additionalEnv": {
    "trackingSentry": "https://000@sentry.io/000",
  }
}
```
````

> Your `context.environment` object will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `context.environment` object will then include the `trackingSentry` property:
```

> ```json
> {
>   "environment": {
>     "applicationId": "ckw3vt1hv034901uzio4bkzc3:my-custom-application",
>     "applicationName": "My Custom Application",
>     "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application",
>     "trackingSentry": "https://000@sentry.io/000",
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json highlightLines="6"
{
  "environment": {
    "applicationId": "ckw3vt1hv034901uzio4bkzc3:my-custom-application",
    "applicationName": "My Custom Application",
    "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application",
    "trackingSentry": "https://000@sentry.io/000",
  }
}
```
````

<Info>

More information about accessing your custom configuration can found [here](/api-reference/application-config#runtime-application-environment)

> </Info>

Reviewer: I think this can be removed

## Usage

### useApplicationContext

> This is a custom hook which allows to access the `ApplicationContext` from any component (or other hooks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A React hook that allows to access the `ApplicationContext` and selectively pick the necessary properties.
```

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```jsx highlightLines="4-6"
````

import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';

const DisplayLocale = () => {

>   const { locale } = useApplicationContext((context) => ({
>     locale: applicationContext.dataLocale
>   }));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const dataLocale = useApplicationContext((context) =>
    applicationContext.dataLocale
  );
```

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Current locale: {locale}</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default DisplayLocale;
```

### withApplicationContext

This is a High Order Component which allows to access the `ApplicationContext` from any component.

> It is meant to be used if you have a class based component where you need to read context data.

Reviewer: A higher-order component (HOC) that allows to access the `ApplicationContext` and selectively pick the necessary properties. This is the equivalent of the React hook `useApplicationContext`.

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```jsx highlightLines="13-15"
````

import { withApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';

class DisplayLocale extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>

>         <h1>Current locale: {this.props.locale}</h1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <h1>Current locale: {this.props.dataLocale}</h1>
```

      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default withApplicationContext((applicationContext) => ({

>   locale: applicationContext.dataLocale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  dataLocale: applicationContext.dataLocale
```

}))(DisplayLocale);
```

# Project image settings

> When using your images for your projects you are expected to upload them to our platform. However, you can also choose to host your images in another service.<br/>
> If this is the case, we don't show them by default to prevent for huge images to be loaded in the browser that could impact Merchat Center performance.
> 
> To enable the rendering of those images you need to set up a project-level configuration where you specify rewrite rules for different images sizes.<br/>
> You can find this configuration in the settings section of your projects in the Merchant Center (**Settings > Project Settings > Miscellaneous**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Product images can be uploaded to the commercetools platform or can be referenced from external sources.

By default, images referenced from external sources are not displayed in the Merchant Center. This is primarily due to avoid possible performance issues in case the size of those images is big.

In order to show images referenced from external sources, you need to define a configuration to rewrite the URL of the images to versions of the image that has a smaller size. You can configure that in the Merchant Center **Settings > Project Settings > Miscellaneous**.

This configuration can be fetched from your Custom Application using the following components.
```

## Usage

### ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex

> If you need to access the rewrite rules for your project images, you need to use this provider in your component's tree.<br/>
> The provider will load the configuration and make it available using the components listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the React context provider that loads the image regex configuration and expose it in the React context so that children can access the configuration.

<Info>

This component is required to be defined in a parent component where children of this component need to access the configuration.

</Info>
```

#### Properties

| Props                           | Type                       | Required | Values            | Default   | Description                                                              |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------- | :------: | ----------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `children`                      | `ReactNode`                |    ✅    | -                 | -         | Components that should be rendered within the scope of this provider.    |
| `skip`                          | `boolean`                  |    -     | -                 | false     | Disables loading images configuration.                                   |

### GetProjectExtensionImageRegex

> Use this component to access the project images configuration provider.<br/>
> It exposes a render prop function which will return the project images configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this component to access the project images configuration, using a `render` prop function.
```

    </ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex>
  );
}
```

#### Properties

| Props                           | Type                                                 | Required | Values            | Default   | Description                                                               |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | :------: | ----------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `render`                        | `Function`<br/>[See signature.](#signature-render)   |    ✅    | -                 | -         | Function to render children component with the image regex configuration. |

#### Signature `render`

```ts
(
  render: (imageRegexContextData: TImageRegexContext) => ReactNode
) => void
```

This is the shape of the param provided in the render prop:

```ts
type TImageRegexContext = {
  isLoading: boolean;
  imageRegex?: {
    small?: {
      flag: string;
      replace: string;
      search: string;
    } | null;
    thumb?: {
      flag: string;
      replace: string;
      search: string;
    } | null;
  } | null;
}
```

### withProjectExtensionImageRegex

> In case you are using a class based component, you can use this HOC to access the project images configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A higher-order component (HOC) to access the image regex configuration.
```

---
title: "@/application-shell-connectors"
---

<Subtitle>

Complementary tools for the [`@commercetools-frontend/application-shell`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-shell).

</Subtitle>

# Installation

```
yarn add @commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors

# or

npm --save install @commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors
```

> Additionally install the peer dependencies (if not present)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally install the peer dependencies (if not present).
```

```
yarn add react @apollo/client

# or

npm --save install react @apollo/client
```

# Application context

> This section describes different parts of information provided through the application context and how it can be accessed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes different parts of the information provided through the application context and how to access them.
```

## Application properties

This is the list of the main properties you can access in the application context.

### `environment`

The information about the runtime application environment such as the [application ID](/api-reference/application-config#envproductionapplicationid) or the [application entry point](/api-reference/application-config#entrypointuripath).

```json
{
  "environment": {
    "applicationId": "ckw3vt1hv034901uzio4bkzc3:my-custom-application",
    "applicationName": "My Custom Application",
    "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application"
  }
}
```

### `user`

> The information about the logged in user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Contains information about the logged in user.
```

```json
{
  "user": {
    "id": "3mj76c04-f910-4223-84e1-f97b0fe291c2",
    "email": "john.doe@domain.com",
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Doe",
    "businessRole": "Consultant",
    "locale": "en-GB",
    "timeZone": "Europe/Berlin",
    "projects": [
      { "key": "my-project-A", "name": "My Project A" },
      { "key": "my-project-B", "name": "My Project B" }
    ]
  }
}
```

### `project`

The information about the currently selected project.

```json
{
  "project": {
    "countries": ["DE", "US"],
    "currencies": ["EUR", "USD"],
    "key": "project-a",
    "languages": ["de-DE", "en-US"],
    "name": "Project A",
    "ownerId": "3mj76c04-f910-4223-84e1-f97b0fe291c2",
    "ownerName": "My Organization"
  }
}
```

### `dataLocale`

The selected data locale that is used to render localized data in your application.

> You should use it as the selected language in components such as [LocalizedTextField](https://uikit.commercetools.com/?path=/story/components-fields--localizedtextfield).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should include it as the selected language in components like [LocalizedTextField](https://uikit.commercetools.com/?path=/story/components-fields--localizedtextfield).
```

A React hook that allows to access the `ApplicationContext` and selectively pick the necessary properties.

```jsx highlightLines="4-6"
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';

const DisplayLocale = () => {
  const dataLocale = useApplicationContext((context) =>
    applicationContext.dataLocale
  );
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Current data locale: {dataLocale}</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default DisplayLocale;
```

### withApplicationContext

A higher-order component (HOC) that allows to access the `ApplicationContext` and selectively pick the necessary properties. This is the equivalent of the React hook `useApplicationContext`.

```jsx highlightLines="13-15"
import { withApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';

class DisplayLocale extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>Current data locale: {this.props.dataLocale}</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default withApplicationContext((applicationContext) => ({
  dataLocale: applicationContext.dataLocale
}))(DisplayLocale);
```

# Project image settings

> Product images can be uploaded to the commercetools platform or can be referenced from external sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Product images can be uploaded to the commercetools Platform or referenced from external sources.
```

By default, images referenced from external sources are not displayed in the Merchant Center. This is primarily due to avoid possible performance issues in case the size of those images is big.

In order to show images referenced from external sources, you need to define a configuration to rewrite the URL of the images to versions of the image that has a smaller size. You can configure that in the Merchant Center **Settings > Project Settings > Miscellaneous**.

This configuration can be fetched from your Custom Application using the following components.

## Usage

### ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex

> This is the React context provider that loads the image regex configuration and expose it in the React context so that children can access the configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the React context provider that loads the image regex configuration and exposes via a React context so that children can access the configuration.
```

<Info>

This component is required to be defined in a parent component where children of this component need to access the configuration.

</Info>

#### Properties

| Props                           | Type                       | Required | Values            | Default   | Description                                                              |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------- | :------: | ----------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `children`                      | `ReactNode`                |    ✅    | -                 | -         | Components that should be rendered within the scope of this provider.    |
| `skip`                          | `boolean`                  |    -     | -                 | false     | Disables loading images configuration.                                   |

### GetProjectExtensionImageRegex

Use this component to access the project images configuration, using a `render` prop function.

```jsx
function MyComponent() {
  return (

>     <GetProjectExtensionImageRegex

Reviewer 3: At some point we should likely also offer a `useProjectExtensionImageRegex` and build the render-prop based component and HoC upon it maybe.

Reviewer: Yes we probably should

Author: I created a [new GitHub issue](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/issues/2571) to implement that hook as a follow up.

      render={({ isLoading, imageRegex }) => {
        if (isLoading) return <LoadingSpinner />;

        return (
          <div>
            <h1>Project images regex: {imageRegex}</h1>
          </div>
        );
      }}
    />
  );
}

function MyApp() {
  return (
    <ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex>
      <MyComponent />
    </ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex>
  );
}
```

#### Properties

| Props                           | Type                                                 | Required | Values            | Default   | Description                                                               |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | :------: | ----------------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `render`                        | `Function`<br/>[See signature.](#signature-render)   |    ✅    | -                 | -         | Function to render children component with the image regex configuration. |

#### Signature `render`

```ts
(
  render: (imageRegexContextData: TImageRegexContext) => ReactNode
) => void
```

> This is the shape of the param provided in the render prop:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the shape of the parameter provided in the render prop:
```

}
```

### withProjectExtensionImageRegex

A higher-order component (HOC) to access the image regex configuration.

```jsx
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  render() {
    const { imageRegexData } = this.props;
    return (
      <div>
        <h2>Project images regex is loading?: {imageRegexData.isLoading}</h2>
        <h2>Project images regex: {imageRegexData.imageRegex}</h2>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

const WrappedComponent = withProjectExtensionImageRegex()(MyComponent);

class MyApp extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex>
        <MyComponent />
      </ProjectExtensionProviderForImageRegex>
    );
  }
}
```

#### Properties

| Props                           | Type                               | Required | Values            | Default                  | Description                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | :------: | ----------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `propKey`                       | `string`                           |    -     | -                 | 'imageRegexData'         | Name of the prop where the image regular expression context data will be provided to the wrapped component. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `propKey`                       | `string`                           |    -     | -                 | `imageRegexData`         | Name of the prop where the image regular expression context data will be provided to the wrapped component. |
```

> | `propKey`                       | `string`                           |    -     | -                 | `imageRegexData`         | Name of the prop where the image regular expression context data will be provided to the wrapped component. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `propKey`                       | `string`                           |    -     | -                 | `imageRegexData`         | Name of the prop in which the context data of the regular expression for the image is passed to the wrapped component. |
```

---
title: "@/application-shell-connectors"
---

<Subtitle>

> Components to work with the `@commercetools-frontend/application-shell` package to access and subscribe to specific data within the AppShell.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Components to work with the `@commercetools-frontend/application-shell` package to access and subscribe to specific data from the Application Shell.
```

> Components to work with the `@commercetools-frontend/application-shell` package to access and subscribe to specific data within the AppShell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complementary tools for the [`@commercetools-frontend/application-shell`](/api-reference/commercetools-frontend-application-shell).
```

</Subtitle>

# Installation

```
yarn add @commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors

# or

npm --save install @commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors
```

> Additionally install the peer dependencies (if not present)

Reviewer 3: I guess keeping these up-to-date is hard-ish. Maybe we can have a link to a `package.json`. I presume many users would just read this and 🤔.

Reviewer: Eventually these should be automated like we do in uikit. It's a bit trickier doing it here with the Gatsby setup but totally doable.

```
yarn add react @apollo/client

# or

npm --save install react @apollo/client
```

> 

Reviewer: After a first look, I think I would probably imagine the structure of the page to be something like this:

```
# Application context

## Application properties

### `environment`

### `user`

### `project`

### `dataLocale`

## Custom user properties

## Usage

### useApplicationContext

### withApplicationContext

# Project image settings

## Usage

### GetProjectExtensionImageRegex

### withProjectExtensionImageRegex
```

Author: Structure updated in this commit 80980a4caec6d6f8973abd3475b4744daaa21e6a

# Context

> In this section we describe the type of information you will find in the main application context and how to access it.

Reviewer 3: I think it's general wording and that should be consistent (use of `we` for instance).

```suggestion
This section describes different parts of information provided through the application context and how it can be accessed.
```

## ApplicationContext

This is the main React context for the application and it holds global information regarding user, permissions, project, etc.

> To read more about the data in the context, read the following;

Reviewer 3: Missing link to types maybe? In parts we should maybe note that it's two parts. One is what we provide and a user can't influence. That's user, permissions, project. Then there is what a user can put onto the context which usually relates to `environment`.

### environment

> An object holding environment installation information for the Custom Application such its [ID](/api-reference/application-config#envproductionapplicationid))]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An object containing information about the environment of the Custom Application such as the [ID](/api-reference/application-config#envproductionapplicationid))] of the Custom Application
```

> or its [entry point](/api-reference/application-config#entrypointuripath).

Reviewer 3: Unneeded newline I think.

```json
{
  "environment": {
    "applicationId": "ckw3vt1hv034901uzio4bkzc3:my-custom-application",
    "applicationName": "My Custom Application",
    "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application"
  }
}
```

> ### custom configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Custom configuration
```

Reviewer 3: Ah thanks. Disregard comment above then :)

It is important to note that your Custom Application configuration is also exposed within the `context.environment` property.<br/>
Any property you add to your application configuration file under the prop [`additionalEnv`](/api-reference/application-config#additionalenv) will also be available in the `context.environment` object.

Let's say you have something like this `custom-application-config.mjs` file in your project:

```json
{
  "name": "My Custom Application",
  "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application",
  "cloudIdentifier": "gcp-eu",
  "additionalEnv": {
    "trackingSentry": "https://000@sentry.io/000",
  },

>   ... // rest of your configuration

Author: It seems good enough to me, but maybe we don't use to have examples like this.
Do you think it's better to leave that comment out?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/97907068/164035331-ef00fd09-6483-4238-b83d-14d2249251d9.png)

>   ... // rest of your configuration

Reviewer 3: Ah thanks for double checking. I was on my phone when I reviewed the first but. Mainly as GitHub always goes all red on comments in JSON.

}
```

Your `context.environment` object will look like this:

```json
{
  "environment": {
    "applicationId": "ckw3vt1hv034901uzio4bkzc3:my-custom-application",
    "applicationName": "My Custom Application",
    "entryPointUriPath": "my-custom-application",
    "trackingSentry": "https://000@sentry.io/000",
  }
}
```

<Info>

More information about accessing your custom configuration can found [here](/api-reference/application-config#runtime-application-environment)

</Info>

> ### user

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### The logged in user
```

Logged in user information.

```json
{
  "user": {
    "id": "3mj76c04-f910-4223-84e1-f97b0fe291c2",
    "email": "john.doe@domain.com",
    "firstName": "John",
    "lastName": "Doe",
    "businessRole": "Consultant",
    "locale": "en-GB",
    "timeZone": "Europe/Berlin",
    "projects": [
      { "key": "my-project-A", "name": "My Project A" },
      { "key": "my-project-B", "name": "My Project B" }
    ]
  }
}
```

> ### project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### The currently viewed project
```

Reviewer 3: Just to be precise as it changes and is not static

Current selected project information.

```json
{
  "project": {
    "countries": ["DE", "US"],
    "currencies": ["EUR", "USD"],
    "key": "project-a",
    "languages": ["de-DE", "en-US"],
    "name": "Project A",
    "ownerId": "3mj76c04-f910-4223-84e1-f97b0fe291c2",
    "ownerName": "My Organization"
  }
}
```

> ### dataLocale

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Data locale
```

This property holds the information about the selected locale that is used to render localized data in your application.
You should use it as the selected language in components like [LocalizedTextField](https://uikit.commercetools.com/?path=/story/components-fields--localizedtextfield).

```json
{
  "dataLocale": "de"
}
```

## useApplicationContext

This is a custom hook which allows to access the `ApplicationContext` from any component (or other hooks).

### Usage

```jsx
import { useApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';

> const DisplayLocale = () => {
>   const { locale } = useApplicationContext((context) => ({
>     locale: applicationContext.dataLocale
>   }));
>   render() {
>     return (
>       <div>
>         <h2>Current locale: {locale}</h1>
>       </div>
>     );
>   }
> }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const DisplayLocale = () => {
  const { locale } = useApplicationContext((context) => ({
    locale: applicationContext.dataLocale,
  }));

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Current locale: {locale}</h1>
    </div>
  );
};
```

export default DisplayLocale;
```

### withApplicationContext

This is a High Order Component which allows to access the `ApplicationContext` from any component.
It is meant to be used if you have a class based component where you need to read context data.

```jsx
import { withApplicationContext } from '@commercetools-frontend/application-shell-connectors';

const DisplayLocale = () => {

>   render() {

Author: My bad; sorry.

This code snippet is supposed to use class based components so I updated it in this commit 8f69884f14284f74a6d49b127fa1cff096db1f1f
